# ENSTA - Landing System Project

Verification project for a Landing System project @ ENSTA Bretagne.
GitHub : https://github.com/LBF38/ensta_landing_system

## Requirements

- UPPAAL v5.0.0
  - To install it, follow the instructions on the [UPPAAL website](https://uppaal.org/).

## Documentation

This repository contains the `landing_system.xml` file, which is the UPPAAL model of the landing system.
This file contains :

- The model of the system : it is composed of multiple Templates, that are parametrized and can be instantiated.
- The properties to verify : they are written in the UPPAAL query language, and are used to verify the system.

In this repo, you will also find the `traces.xtr` file, which contains the traces of the system, generated by UPPAAL.
It shows a full operational iteration of the system's main purpose: it starts with the plane just lifted off, and the pilot sets its lever on "up" position, then the system executes an 'opening door --> retract gears --> close doors' sequence. It pursue with the inverted procedure: the pilot sets its lever on "down" position and the sequence to be executing an 'opening door --> extend gears --> close doors' sequence.

## Explanation

We will explain here our system, our hypothesis, and the properties we want to verify.

### Hypothesis

We have made the following hypothesis :

1. The plane starts on the floor, at the beginning of the runway.
2. When the pilot activates the handle up, the plane will start the retracting process, as it is supposed to be flying.
3. When the pilot activates the handle down, the plane will start the landing process, as it is supposed to be landing.
4. The system doesn't implement either timed procedures, nor the normal procedure interuption due to the pilot shifting its orders during the procedure.
5. The system doesn't implement error reliability requirements : neither sensors multiplicity, nor error handling, nor the emergency case.

### System

We have decomposed the system into multiple parametrized templates, so that it is easier to instantiate them and assemble the whole system.

> **Note**
> Please refer to the templates in UPPAAL to see the details of the system.
>
> The templates have explicit names and comments, so that it is easier to understand them.

## Authors

- Vincent C.
- Mathis U.
